There are other types of formats
that you can save data in
beyond the tabular format, beyond,
or the CSV file or text file.
These are also textual formats, but
they are a little bit different for,
from the tabular data that
we've talked about before.
And the two main functions for writing
out data and f, are dumping and dputing.
So, and, and the idea behind these types
of formats is they're text formats, but
they're not really, they're not
really formatted in a way that's,
in the same as like a table because they
contain a little bit more meta-data.
So data about, for example,
the type of the data in,
in each class, object for example.
So if you, if you dump or
dput a data frame.
It will include in the output, that the
class of each column, of the data frame,
so that you don't have to
specify it when you read it in.
And so the advantage of, of doing, using
this type of mechanism to store data or
to read, or to read data,
is that you don't have,
it's still a textual format, which can be
useful, but it also contains metadata, so
that you don't have to specify it
every single time you read it in.
Because that, if you don't, ca,
if the metadata do not get carried with
the data set itself, then it, they ca,
they can get lost if you,
if they get transferred somewhere else and
if you don't remember what the metadata
are, for example the classes of
the different columns, then you kind of
have to reconstruct that from scratch.
So that's one advantage of using,
using a function like dump or
dput to, to output data from R.
And similarly the, the, the,
the functions for reading data using, fr,
that haven't been outputted from dump or
dput are source and, dget.
So in general, the textual formats
are very nice formats for storing data
because, there's a number of different
types of, different advantages to them.
First of all, they're editable, so
you can, if you want to you can edit them.
I wouldn't say this is something
that I would advice, but
because of you wanted
something that's reproducible.
But, for example if something gets
corrupted then you can look at the file
to see if it's possible to recover it.
So textual formats can be a little longer
lived, if you're going to be storing data
for a long time, sometimes it's useful to,
if it's possible to use a type of textual
format so that you can avoid problem,
potential problems with corruption.
Textual formats can also work better
if you're using like a version control
program, like subversion or git, where
you're tracking changes between documents.
and, and those types of programs
tend to be much more useful with
textual data rather than binary data, so
that you can track changes meaningfully.
Textual formats adhere to the general
kind of Unix philosophy, which is to
store all kinds of data, which generally
stores all kinds of data in text.
But the one downside of textual formats is
that they tend not to be space efficient,
so they tend to, they tend to
take up a lot of space, and so,
it often need to be compressed.
So, d, the dput function takes
an arbitrary R object, and
it will, use, it will take most types of R
objects except for some more exotic ones,
and it will create some R code that will
essentially reconstruct the object in R.
So here's I'm creating a small data frame,
it's got two columns, the first column is
called A the second column is called B,
and then I'm going to
dput this data frame.
And you'll see the out,
if you discall dput it'll just
output the results to the console.
And you can see that
what I've done is that.
What it does, it, it's re,
it's constructed some R code.
For example, it's creating this list
that has these two elements in it.
And you can see that each element
has has the data that's in it.
And it has the names embedded here,
it's got the row names here.
And it has the class of the object which,
in this case, is the data frame.
And so, all the metadata
here like the row names and
the names and
the class are all included in the output.
Now, of course, you generally don't
want to print this to the console,
that's not particularly useful,
you probably want to save it to a file.
So you can dput the file to a file and
then later on, you can read it into R
using dget, and when you dget the object,
you will get this object and
you will see that it's, you have kind of
reconstructed the object from before.
So the dput function,
essentially writes R code, which can
be used to reconstruct an R object.
The dump function is
a lot like dget however,
the difference is that dget can
only be used on a single R object.
Whereas dump can be used on multiple
R objects and so what you do is what
you pass a dump is the character vector
which contains the names of the objects.
So here I created two
objects one called x,
the other called y and
when I pass the dump.
Is are the names of those objects?
The names are X and Y.
And I give it a file, that I want
to store the da, the objects in.
And then I can remove them if I want to,
but to read those objects back into R,
I can call the source function on that
file and you'll see that the Y object and
the X object have been reconstructed.